Of all the nodes on the frontier.
Most would be explored with the exception of nodes B,
D, and F, which all have a path cost of six.
They and a few other nodes would be explored in the following steps.
Now, let's explore a more complicated example.
This is a graph where each node is labeled with a letter A through N,
and each edge has a cost.
We'd like to apply uniform cost search to find a path from the start node
E to the goal node K. Recall that in breadth-first search,
the frontier was represented by a queue.
In depth-first search, the frontier was represented by a stack.
Each accommodated the corresponding algorithms desired search order,
first-in first-out or last-in first-out.
In uniform cost search,
we wish to explore nodes with lowest path costs first.
To accommodate this, we can use a priority queue,
that is a queue that is organized by the path cost. Let's take a look.
At the start, there are four nodes and their corresponding paths on the frontier.
They're organized as such with nodes G and F at the top of the queue as they
have the lowest path cost followed by nodes A and D. Next,
we removed the top node from the frontier to explore it.
As a result two more nodes are added to the frontier.
They assume their appropriate positions in the prioritize queue.
Node H has a path cost of two plus three which is five,
and node I has a path cost of two plus five which is equal to seven.
These are the shortest paths to these nodes that we are aware of at this time.
Next, we explore note F. In this process,
node M is added to the queue and another interesting thing happens.
The path cost of node I is reduced to six.
This is because a shorter route has been found to this node.
The algorithm continue searching,
exploring the node on the frontier that has the lowest path cost.
Adding new nodes to the frontier,
and updating the path costs for a node if a shorter path has been found.
After some time, the goal is found.
It has a path costs of nine following the path E,
F, I, J, and K.